The overall goal of our project is to examine how specific factors, such as movie budget or viewer ratings, ultimately affecting the types of movies
being produced and track changes in movie production over time. To do so, we have created 5 different types of visualizations:

1) Interactive Sankey Diagrams

From the three Sankey diagrams, it's clear that the drama genre has consistently held strong over the decades, 
from the 2000s to the 2020s, frequently generating around $10 to $50 million in revenue, highlighting its enduring 
appeal across generations. Collectively, these shifts reveal how technological evolution and changing audience preferences 
continue to reshape the cinematic landscape. We designed the Sankey diagram to be interactive, categorizing movies by either 
their genre or their budget. We chose Sankey diagrams because it makes it easier to visualize distinct categories and their relations to each other.
For these Sankeys, the colors of the budget and revenue categories stay consistent throughout, while the color ordering for the genres is dependent on the
amount of funding being put into them. Therefore, the colors of the genres may change from one Sankey to another. The interactive nature of these diagrams
help viewers see where a branch leads to or starts from (as shown by the source and target keys being highlighted). Hovering over the nodes themselves allow 
for viewers to see the cumulative incoming and outcoming branches per category, allowing for comparison. 


2) D3 Bar Chart
The bar plot, made with D3, represents the average budget put into producing movies across various genres within the iMDb movie dataset. 
The x-axis consists of the genres while the y-axis consists of the average budget range in dollars ranging from $10 million to $80 million. 
With the genres at a 45 degree angle, this graph is easily read by viewers and kept neat for presentation. Additionally, the y scale increasing 
consistently in 10 millions helps with the comparative aspect of bar plots. From this graph, we can conclude that "Adventure", "Science Fiction", 
"Fantasy", and "Animation" are the most expensive movies to produce, while "Horror", "Documentary", and "TV Movie" genres are less expensive to produce. 


3) Interactive Tree Map
The treemap represents the top 25 production companies based on revenue and average user rating. By examining the relationships between variables such as production budget, audience ratings, popularity, genre, and revenue, we are able to gather insights into the factors that influence the success and critical reception of films. The treemap employed nested area marks to represent the total revenue generated by production companies, with color encoding the user rating averages, which offers insights into the companies' financial and qualitative performance.


4) Interactive Scatterplot
This interactive scatter plot, created with Altair, serves as a tool for visualizing the relationship between movie popularity and its average user rating, while allowing filtering by genre. The chart uses point marks to represent individual movies, with position encoding continuous quantitative variables of popularity on the x-axis and average rating on the y-axis. Opacity is also used to get rid of points not corresponding to the selected genre. The combination of interactivity and visual encoding enables an interesting analysis of how audience perception and reception relate to public interest measured by popularity, and underscores the impact of genre in influencing film dynamics.



5) 3 Tiered Scatterplot
The graphs above demonstrate the relationship between movie budget and multiple factors: revenue, popularity, and vote_average. The slider bar was 
added so that the user can easily see how trends in movie budgets drastically increase from the years 2000-2024. And by visualizing each graph side by side, 
it is evident that certain genres, like revenue, remain the same and others, like popularity, start to change with time. Additionally, these graphs were color 
coded by year for viewers to easily distinguish between different time periods. Overall, these graphs function to demonstrate that higher budgets do not always 
correlate to 'better' movies. A bigger movie budget is not an indicator for better revenue or better audience reviews, but may attract a larger audience.
 
